# Estimation-of-Respiratory-rate-from-Breathing-Audio

To set up the environment for the code provided, we will need the following:

1. Python: Install Python, preferably version 3.6 or above, on your system.

2. Libraries: Install the necessary libraries using pip, a package installer for Python. Open a command prompt or terminal and run the following commands:
   
   pip install tensorflow
   pip install scikit-learn
   pip install keras
   pip install numpy
   pip install matplotlib
   pip install librosa
   pip install flask
   

3. Dataset: Download the "Respiratory Sound Database ICBHI 2017" dataset and place it in a directory on your system. Make sure to update the file path in the code to point to the dataset directory.

4. IDE or Text Editor: Choose an integrated development environment (IDE) or text editor to write and run the code. we have  Visual Studio Code for .py files, Jupyter Notebook for .ipynb files

Once you have set up the environment and installed the required libraries, you can run the code by executing it in your chosen IDE or text editor.

Note: It's recommended to create a virtual environment for project to isolate the dependencies and avoid conflicts with other Python projects on system. We have used tools like conda to create a virtual environment.

Note: Model downloaded using .ipynb file should be added in the same directory as .py file to execute the flask web application.


To support the code and its execution, the following hardware and software requirements are necessary:

Hardware Requirements:
- Processor: Multi-core processor with a clock speed of 2.5 GHz or higher
- RAM: At least 8 GB of RAM (16 GB or higher recommended for better performance)
- Storage: Sufficient storage space to accommodate the dataset and any additional files generated by the code

Software Requirements:
- Operating System: Windows, macOS, or Linux
- Python: Version 3.6 or above
- Python Libraries: TensorFlow, scikit-learn, Keras, NumPy, Matplotlib, librosa, Flask
- Integrated Development Environment (IDE) or Text Editor: Examples include PyCharm, Visual Studio Code, Jupyter Notebook, or Spyder



